adding sound effects and music is a
great way to add a motion to your piece
as you can see here without sound
effects and music the piece well doesn't
have any real punch world hunger world
hunger across the globe doesn't say much
without a little bit of a music or sound
effect so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to add some music and sound
effects see my collections here I've got
are some things that I've already pre
imported and if I right click it and go
to play clip I'll get a preview of what
it is okay so that's my music go ahead
and stop that let's see what this one is
here there's a baby crying okay well i
know that baby crying certainly does
VOCA motion in people so I'm going to
put that towards the title here I'm just
going to click and drag it into my fill
into my movie and I'm going to extend
the title page to maybe about seven
seconds about seven seconds long here so
which is going to show what r old hunger
on the screen for about seven seconds
and it's gonna be playing this baby
crying but you know what i think i'd
like to have them just look at the world
hunger without any noise first maybe the
first two and a half seconds and then
start the baby crying but as you can see
i don't really want the title page to go
on too long it's already ending at seven
seconds that's good enough but the baby
crying is extending far beyond that i'm
going to want to shorten that up it so
i'm just going to grab the clip here i'm
going to shorten it you can see the
duration of the sound shown the bottom
there 587 5 i'm gonna bring it down to
just where it starts to fade out and i
also noticed that the baby crying is not
very loud let's see i think that could
be just a touch louder so I'm going to
right-click on the clip I'm going to go
to volume I'm going to increase it just
a little bit just to touch a little bit
more effect now
you can also see that this is the world
hunger title page here says world hunger
here and this is the text that I was
working with before that was supposed to
be overlaying on the map because I moved
the world hunger title page and made a
longer the map or I'm supposed to be
having this overlay on top of his moved
over here just past the seven second
mark so I'm going to grab my text
overlay and I'm going to bring that over
here doesn't seem to be following the
mouse kimono really there we go have to
click and hold for a second to grab it
there we go so now this clip should be
like this good that's there I'm going to
bring the scroll bar over here and just
see how it looks right now before we add
the music world hunger nice now I'm
going to add in my music and um you know
edit and write or the transition ends
see how that looks good right where the
texture is coming in you know what i
think i'd like to adds a little bit more
text in there to the globe part and
there's a way they can actually add your
own narration if you go here to this
little picture of a microphone and click
it and then click on start narration I
can't do it right now because i'm using
the computer's microphone to make this
video you're watching right now but if I
wasn't I'd be able to click on start
narration and then speak my narration
into the microphone and then hit stop
once you do that you're presented with a
standard saved document and I saved mine
as let's see the actually automatically
season to your collection I saved mine
as world hunger affect everyone so I'm
going to bring this file down in here
and i can actually going to put it right
where this music starts world hunger
affects everyone is now going to be the
first thing that you here after the baby
crying and then the music let's see how
that goes
world hunger affects everybody
everywhere nice everybody everywhere but
you know what I think there's a little
bit of a pause there before it even
started while we bring that over here
and bring it back again trying to get
rid of that pause that I had world much
better next everybody everywhere now I
don't like that everywhere part and i
believe i started saying everywhere
right about here so i'm going to bring
this back here I want to just say world
of hunger affects everybody world hunger
affects everybody just a little bit more
to get rid of that last of the everyw
everywhere maybe bit more and that
should be good let's see affects
everybody yeah and that's what I'm going
to want to have my music come in so I'm
just going to drag the music over here
right here let's see how that looks all
the way to the beginning everybody nice
and that's how you can add in as well as
manipulate your music and sound effects
you